Ever since 1982, an organization called ACM (Association for Computing Machinery) has been collecting students and professionals into working with their SIGCHI division. SIGCHI (Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction) hold discussions, conferences, and projects for the advancement of Computer Human Interaction. A specific topic and presentation from 2019's conference caught my eye because I was able to relate to the experiment. It is called, "Effects of Dark Mode on Visual Fatigue and Acuity in Optical See-Through Head-Mounted Displays."

In this article, 5 students from University of Central Florida conducted experiments to find out if the dark mode color scheme can actually help persistent users experience less visual strain. Even though they have future plans of taking these tests to other display environments, this project was specifically focused on optical see-through head-mounted displays (OST-HMDs). The authors had taken 19 participants from their university (10 male, 9 female), and to control this variable, they made sure everyone’s vision was 20/20 (whether naturally or corrected via contact lenses or glasses). The participants were given Microsoft Hololens, and were asked to conduct visual acuity tests using the different vision modes. The results were as expected, since the authors’ hypotheses came out true. In conclusion, dark mode is definitely the preferred interface for OST-HMDs. In addition, most users also agreed that light mode causes more acuity and fatigue of the eyes. Despite the small sample, the authors were successful in proving that dark mode is easier and more pleasing to the eyes rather than light mode, especially in dim environments.

The authors focused on comparing normal mode against dark mode, specifically on optical see-through head-mounted displays. Although they mentioned that it is a possible future-work for them, it would be nice to include more variables and see how it translates to other types of displays. For example, how would this comparison hold up on non-optical see through displays (VR Headsets) or maybe even regular monitors/smartphones? The authors also mentioned how displays can be influenced by software to adjust luminance/contrast for more eye comfort. So in addition to testing on different types of displays, I would like to find out how “night mode” (warm colors 4500k and below) compares or makes a difference in the study. Tests can be done on regular view with night mode enabled, as well as dark mode in combination with night mode’s warm colors. 


Aside from concluding that dark mode improves visual acuity, especially during the night-time, I'd be interested to observe if this change in negative colors (light-on-dark scheme) is actually a long-term benefit? In other words, if a user is exposed to this dark scheme for an extended period of time, will it have the same result on the users’ eyes in the long run?


ACM Reference: 
Kangsoo Kim, Austin Erickson, Alexis Lambert, Gerd Bruder, and Greg Welch. 2019. Effects of Dark Mode on Visual Fatigue and Acuity in Optical See-Through Head-Mounted Displays. In Symposium on Spatial User Interaction (SUI ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 9, 1–9. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/3357251.3357584